---
id: SPNC-0002
title: Create a new collab site
project: collabornet
status: todo
created: 2026-06-05
---

## Why

The core entity of the app is a "Collab Site", the objects built from "collab_sites" rows. 
In this story we'll implement the 6 screens that lead the admin user to a map centric layout showing a particular collab site map with Leaflet or other mapping tool.
Much of the day to day end user UI experience will revolve around the map created initially, so getting this flow and basic map features in place is key.

## How

This story introduces the earliest admin interface after initial bootstrapping

### Pre-UI usage to bootstrap an admin user with SSO setup

After the system has been bootstrapped from nothing, it cannot do anything until it has been configured with a SSO provider (Zitadel/SPNC-0001). Going to any URL route will return a 403 and message like "SSO not setup yet". 

To bootstrap SSO, there will need to be a script or terraform project that can talk to hosted Zitadel instance. In SPNC-0001 Zitadel OAuth Client may have been setup manually, here we might consider doing this in a more automated way.

We need

### GET /admin"
- Shows "Create Collab Site" Button. When clicked takes to create page

### GET /admin/collab/new

"Collab" is the resource in REST, new is the form page

form shows these fields/field types/greyed out example text

- Collab name/textfield/Cabungalow Food Forrest
- Short anonymized name/textfield/cff
- Central point lat long/geo coordinates/click here to set current location
- Radius of stewardship/select dropdown single choice/1 block ~ 100M, 2 blocks ~200M, 5 blocks ~ 500M

Then a button "Get started", that loads up another UI side page without persisting to backend.

Eventually this page will `POST /admin/collab` but will have a UI oriented flow to collect all of the data

Each subsequent page will have a "< Back" and "Next >" buttons

### GET /admin/collab/new#inspect-map

Shows a square map with Leaflet showing the circle defined by geo coordinates and radius of stewardship inputs.

Has a question: "Is this the correct area that you'll be focussed on stewarding?"

### GET /admin/collab/new#set-goals

A form with 3 text fields and this prompt before it:

"Name 3 goals for the people living in this area that you will be collaborating with" . Anyone who joins the collab will see these prominently when using the site.

### GET /admin/collab/new#write-about

A form with a text area that supports Markdown with this prompt:

"Write a short welcome message people will see before goals. This can be a welcome page, have some important contact info, or whatever you want your users to see when they login"

### GET /admin/collab/new#preview-homepage

Renders the About, Goals, and Map like users will see when they login.

Something at the bottom or top header says "Your site will look like this to users"

### GET /admin/collab/new#final-review

text prompt like "Everything look good? Create Collab Site?"

Button "Yes, lets do it". Clicking it does a `POST /admin/collab`

Then it redirects to the URL `/collab/<anonymized short name>` which renders the page just like the /admin/collab/new#preview-homepage did

## Done when

TODO

## Tasks

TODO

